---
title: "Database Design"
date: 2020-03-10 14:00:00
author: "James Carter"
image: "../../images/comp2.jpg"
tags:
  - csharp
  - retail manager project
  - database design
---

Cash Register Database Design -- Sprint 1/MVP

- SalesItem

  - ItemName

  - Description

  - ~~PurchasePrice~~

  - ~~RetailPrice~~

  - ~~Quantity~~

How do we write the purchase price? If the purchase price is constantly
changing, do we update the price even though we may have some left over
at the old price? Do we do an average or do we make a duplicate item
with new price?

- Inventory

  - ItemId

  - PurchasePrice

  - RetailPrice

  - Quantity

  - PurchaseDate

Move purchase price, retail price, and quantity to a new table. We are
also going to include a purchase date. This will allow the merchant to
be able to pull old stock before new and reflect changes in price.

- Sale

  - SaleDate

  - SubTotal

  - Tax

  - Total

  - CashierId

This is a simple table that will allow increases and decreases in tax
and get your overall amount. The table is simple because each sale
doesn't require much. I do want to include the cashier ID, so I know who
made the sale. This requires the creation of a user table.

- User

  - FirstName

  - LastName

  - EmailAddress

  - AuthUserId

This will be a table for the cashier. It will provide some
authentication for the system so that only a logged in cashier can use
the system. I'm not crazy about using an email address, but for the
first sprint, that's what I'm going with. It's the quickest way to get
it up and running. I am going to use an ID as a primary key vs. a GUID,
because I want each ID added to come after the previous one as in a cluster.
It is also easier to remember an ID of 230 over a GUID string. However, the AuthUserId
will come from authentication and will be a GUID.

- SaleDetail

  - SaleId

  - SalesItem

  - PurchasePrice

  - Quantity

There's one thing to ask here concerning purchase price: Do we want a
total which is then divided by the number of items, or do we want a
single purchase price multiplied by the quantity? I think that it would
be more useful to have a single item multiplied.

\*\*\*\*\*

This is about as basic as it needs to be right now. I'm not accounting
for things like reports, returns, monetary concerns, etc. But that's
okay because this will get a product up and running.
